Last time on Yu-Gi-Oh! Zexal...
YUMA: Hope I didn't
keep you waiting too long!
Trey: You'll wish
you never came here at all
once you see the new
power that I've acquired.
Meeting your family and seeing
you together made me think...
About my own family.
I want to see them all
happy like they used to be.
But I can't help them as long
as you're standing in my way!
TOGETHER: Let's duel!
What's wrong?
I'm just trying my new Power on
for size, so I can destroy you!
You're through!
It's done.
I've separated yuma
and astral for good.
Astral will always be
a part of me no matter what!
Nothing you can do to
me will change that.
Now, let's finish our duel.
With these two monsters,
I build the overlay
network and xyz summon!
Number 6: Chronomaly atlandis!
Atlandis Can equip itself with
a number card from my graveyard
and gain its attack points!
You're equipping
it with machu mech?
That's right!
By Using one overlay
unit, atlandis wipes out
half your life points!
Orichalcum gate!
TORI: Yuma!
This Duel is over!
♪ If life is a game they say ♪
♪ I can't win, I'll never
amount to nothing ♪
♪ tear me down
before my life begins ♪
♪ I won't be afraid
to challenge myself ♪
♪ they won't ever break my fire,
my dreams won't die ♪
♪ if I hi-Five the sky ♪
♪ spread my wings
take off it's time to fly ♪
♪ take a chance to
make it all the way ♪
♪ take a chance
forgetting yesterday ♪
♪ take a chance believe... ♪
♪ Nothing will bring me down ♪
♪ no retreat when I leave
all my fears Behind ♪
♪ my future's
still alive inside ♪
♪ take a chance to
Chase my doubts away ♪
♪ believing gets me
through my darkest Days ♪
[♪...]
♪ take a chance to
make it all the way ♪
♪ take a chance
forgetting yesterday ♪
♪ take a breath my
heart will lead the way ♪
♪ take a chance ♪
♪ I'll take a chance today ♪
I knew you would never
survive without astral.
Don't count me out yet...
I'm still in this,
and I've got lots of fight left.
That was just the warm up,
the real duel's starting now!
You're down to
200 puny points.
One more attack
and it's all over.
It's your turn but
you may as well give up.
Quitting isn't my style.
I still have a chance to pull
this off, 'cause astral's
memory is always with me.
&Nbspyou have my promise, astral.
&Nbspi may be down, but I've still
&nbspgot plenty of fight left!
&Nbspi'm gonna unleash the power
&nbspof the card you left for me
&nbspto pull off the win!
C'mon, utopia!
It's time to feel the flow!
When my life points are less
than a thousand, I can use
utopia to xyz summon
CHAOSNUMBER 39: Utopia ray!
Go Chaos xyz evolution!
BRONK: Lookin' good, utopia ray!
Cathy: That's it, yuma!
Great move!
At last he summoned it.
&Nbspthis better work!
&Nbspif Utopia ray can't bring
&nbsptrey back to his senses,
&nbspthen nothing will!
I activate overlay eater's
special ability
from my graveyard!
By Banishing this card,
my utopia Ray takes an
OVERLAY unit from
your xyz monster.
Perfect!
Atlandis can't use its
special ability anymore.
And now...
Utopia ray will use
Its special ability!
Utopia Ray gains
500 attack points
for every overlay
unit that it uses.
And I'm gonna use all
three of its overlay
units to supercharge its power!
Overlay charge!
This ability also
cuts atlandis's attack
points down by 3000!
How can you duel this
way with astral gone?
Because astral never left!
He's always with
me, here in my heart!
You tried to take astral
away from me, but you failed!
And now we're gonna win This
duel together... Just watch!
Okay utopia ray,
it's time to strike!
Sorry But utopia
ray just struck out!
I activate my
thunder Pot trap card!
Not only does it stop
utopia ray's attack
against my atlandis, but
it also ends this battle!
That wasn't exactly
what I had in mind!
I thought yuma had him!
That Trey Sure is tricky!
You gave it your best try... But
even utopia ray can't stop me.
Doesn't matter!
I managed to hang
on This long...
and I will find a way to win
this thing, so take your turn!
You do know how to
talk a good game, yuma.
But the fact is, both
our monster's attack
points return to normal now...
So you can't possibly
survive another blow.
Now, I draw...
no! Not now!
Vetrix warned me
this might happen...
VETRIX: You must understand
by acquiring the crest you will
gain the incredible power to
utilize and control number 6:
Chronomaly atlandis.
However, there is a price
to be paid for this power.
The crest can be dangerous.
It will drain away all
your physical and mental energy.
I don't care about that.
I...
just want to beat yuma...
and make you proud of me.
I'm confident you
won't let me down.
You're stronger
than you know, Trey.
&Nbspthis weakness is the
&nbspprice I have to pay.
&Nbspvetrix believes in me and I'm
&nbspnot going to let him down now!
&Nbspi will not fail.
You're finished yuma!
Since atlandis has
no overlay units,
you lose half your
life points, yuma!
And so do I.
No!
Unbelievable!
He gave up life
points just to get yuma.
Flip: Please get up!
I still have a
hundred life points, Trey.
That's enough to keep dueling!
The crest... it's taken over!
That crest's gonna destroy him.
Trey!
No! Stay back!
I don't want your help, yuma.
I chose to take this
path, understand?
It's the only way I can
get the power that I need.
What happens to me... it doesn't
matter at all... as long as...
I can serve my family!
But Trey...
This last attack will
wipe out your life points!
Erupt, chronomaly atlandis!
Destroy utopia ray
with celestial strike!
CASWELL: Oh, no!
If yuma takes this
hit, this duel's over!
I activate my battle
Break trap card!
When your monster attacks,
your monster is destroyed,
and the battle is over!
I'll use...
the ritual was a success, Trey.
Now, as promised,
here's the number... along
with a most sinister card.
Final prophecy?
But vetrix... isn't
this the trap card that...
think of it as a last resort.
In case things don't
go as well as you hope.
If you do use the card, you will
both suffer the consequences.
Of course, I sincerely hope that
you won't be forced to use it.
But, what if...
you did say you'd do whatever it
takes to beat yuma, didn't you?
You may have a
chance to prove it.
I activate the
trap final prophecy!
I'll have to destroy my equip
card, reducing my monster's
attack points, but it also stops
and destroys your trap card!
No way! You were willing to make
atlandis weaker just
to destroy my trap card?
Yes, but it's still
strong enough to beat you.
Especially since you
only have 100 life points.
Keep up your attack, atlandis!
Crush utopia ray and yuma!
I activate another
trap card, half unbreak!
Not only does it shield utopia
ray from being destroyed,
but it also cuts
the damage in half!
Yuma...
You cannot win...
Trey!
You have to stop before
this duel destroys you.
I don't care!
You're in my family's way and
I'll beat you no matter what!
You've got it wrong!
I'm not your enemy, I just
wanna be friends with you!
That will never happen, yuma.
I don't need friends.
We all need friends, Trey!
Maybe if we talk this
through, I can find some way
to help you and your family!
Thank you yuma,
but it's too late
for both of us.
Too late for what, Trey?
Unfortunately for us, the
final prophecy trap that
I used will lead
to our destruction!
On my next turn, we'll both take
damage equal to machu mech's
attack points, and
we'll both be destroyed.
Now what?
I'm not sure...
But it looks like this place is
gonna lose a lot of real estate!
Soon you and I will each be
down to zero life points
and that finally
will be the end of it.
And I don't just mean
the end of our contest.
This is going to be the last
duel either of us ever has!
I feel at peace because I
know there really was no other
way to save my family and I'm
sure vetrix will be proud of me.
Someday soon, my family
will return to normal.
But Trey, this
isn't the answer...
the effect from that
final prophecy trap
is still goin' strong!
It's gonna destroy
everything here.
The trap can't
hurt us, though.
It's part of this
virtual world.
In the end, it
really isn't there.
No way!
Even without my duel gazer, I
can see that final prophecy Trap
zapping everything in sight!
This is real!
That final prophecy Trap
is gonna zap us... for real!
We don't have much time!
What're we gonna do?
Hey Trey... tell me...
what is that thing?
I'm not really sure.
It's from another
dimension, I think.
Trey!
It's no use.
The final prophecy
Card cannot be stopped.
Not even my crest is powerful
enough to hold it back!
Vetrix!
Your card doesn't just
eliminate the duelists,
it destroys the whole world!
It appears that Trey used
the trap card I gave him.
Quinton: Vetrix... don't
tell me you gave Trey the
final prophecy card?
It is creating a portal to
barian world just as I foresaw!
Once the portal fully opens,
it can't be closed again!
Hey Trey!
I need answers, what's going on?
Our duel is opening a portal in
This world to another dimension.
And in a short time, everything
around us is going to be
swallowed up by it.
Everything?
Us, too?
Please don't swallow me!
I swear I don't taste very good!
Trust me, when I
activated that card
I didn't realize it would
devour the whole world.
Please forgive me, yuma.
Time to feel the flow!
You just told me that this
inter-Dimensional portal is
opening up because of our duel.
So all I have to do is defeat
you and that should keep the
portal from opening anymore!
You can't win!
Since I have less than a
thousand life points right now,
you can't destroy atlandis, or
deal ANY battle damage to me.
The situation we're in
is utterly hopeless.
It's not hopeless!
As long as I don't give up,
then we all still have a chance!
If astral were here he
would agree with me...
zexal...
what's that?
It's a mysterious power that
astral and I brought about.
But now... he's gone...
because of me.
Yuma!
What if you could
bring astral back?
How could I do that?
I used the power of the crest to
make astral disappear from here.
If I can transfer the crest
over to you then perhaps...
Wait, you really think
I could bring astral back?
Yes, But if you fail to gain
control of the crest's power,
then it will gain
control of you.
I'll risk it... it's worth
it to bring astral back.
Alright, give me the
power of the crest Trey.
Astral, come back!
Astral!
KAZUMA: Astral...
it's you!
Hello, astral.
My son is calling for you.
Please, you must
go and help yuma.
Yuma...
yuma.
I can't believe...
you're back.
I heard you were
calling for me, so I came.
I'm glad... you're here.
Not that... I need
your help or anything.
Everything's gonna be
okay cause astral's back!
Great.
Forget me.
Destroy atlandis
before it's too late!
It is time for zexal!
Right!
So, let's do this!
Now you and I will build
the overlay network!
What're they doin'?
When two distant
souls become one,
the power of zexal is revealed!
Go zexal morph!
Yuma and astral
just merged together!
Let's get this done.
A truly powerful duelist can
shape the outcome of a duel.
He can even generate the very
card that he needs to draw!
Go shining draw!
Appear, zexal weapon!
Phoenix bow!
I equip it on to utopia ray!
Now When utopia ray attacks,
your monster is automatically
destroyed, and you take 1000
points of damage!
Get ready, utopia ray!
Attack Atlandis now!
Phoenix finish!
The bond between yuma and astral
is stronger than I realized!
It's Trey!
He was... defeated!
What will happen to him now?
Whoa...
Hey, look!
It's the real world!
And there's no sign
of that freaky trap!
Then it can't devour us!
in the end, we're all ok!
I won the duel?
Yuma...
we have saved your world.
Yeah, that was great teamwork!
But...
what about Trey?
Hey, Trey!
You okay?
Here, lemme help you.
Are you hurt?
I finally understand, yuma.
You accept me as I really am.
I can see clearly now that
you're the only
True friend I have.
Look Trey, I'm sorry if I...
yuma, I have a favor to ask you.
Will you do what you
can to help save my family?
If you just keep
"feelin the flow",
I'm sure you'll find a
way to make things right.
Trey!
Goodbye...
yuma!
Alright, you won your
last heart piece just in time!
So you made it to the finals!
Yuma?
I promise I'm not going to
let my friend Trey down.
I will find a way
to help his family.
There's no stopping me now!
I failed you, vetrix.
Forgive me.
Everything will
be alright, Trey.
I promise you.
Vetrix, will you...
hold my hand?
That's much better.
I think I'll try
to get some sleep now.
Don't let your mind be troubled.
Rest Well, Trey.
Rest until I settle things with
the son of kazuma tsukumo.